full instructor tom simpson
of the national billiard academy has a
great catchphrase beep people with a
stick he's taken time out of his busy
teaching and traveling schedule to give
us at the men's room a tutorial on the
art of jumping billiard balls in recent
years jumping has become a significant
part of the game especially for nine
ball players because of the nature of
nine ball you have to hit the lowest
number ball on the table before you hit
any other balls and so sometimes that's
just not possible there's another ball
in the way so when that happens you
either have to try to go around that
ball or over jumping is the art of going
over it there are two things you really
need to jump balls you need good
technique and you need good equipment
we're going to look at both today the
stinger is a specially designed cue that
is optimized for jumping balls and
breaking racks it outperforms its
competitors due to its exclusive use of
jericho cues patented tip ferrell system
no other cues are available with this
technology this becomes a jump cue when
you shorten it by breaking it down here
at the second joint the cue has two
quick-release joints
it's an ala jump cue it meets all the
specs and requirements and intent of the
rules for jump cues and it's it's very
easy to jump with the way easy way to
learn this is start with your grip hand
at the joint on the cue not back here
when you're back here your arm tends to
fly around and you get error so we're
going to start with our grip at the
joint we're gonna warm up by throwing
some darts out here in the air and the
idea is to focus on letting your wrist
get fluid and loose like this so it's
just kind of flopping back and forth in
a nice straight line with a lot of
fluidity when you get that feeling you
can just lower it down keeping that
feeling and you want to pin your arm to
your body that's going to isolate my
wrist so that's about the only thing
that's moving there's a little bit of
forearm but it's mostly mostly wrist and
it's also going to make my forearm be
vertical so the stick goes straight
instead of wobbling around like this so
we're going to bring the bring the stick
down we're going to pin the arm to the
body
up in a little bit and allow your front
arm to bend out of the way if you need
to it'll vary with your height and how
far you're reaching try to site down the
cue you want to look down it with your
eyes and your head level if possible and
see where you're shooting the correct
way to jump is to go right through the
ball and if you just look here I'm
pointing at the core of the ball the
dead center of the ball what I want to
do is go just a little bit below that
and I want to be at about a 35 40 degree
angle so I've got my loose wrist I'm
hitting the ball just below Center I'm
on my line
I made the eight I want Tom is only one
of ten BC a master instructors in the
world he also runs the national billiard
Academy in Columbus Ohio and writes for
inside pool I think I have one of the
best jobs in the world
I get to help people do something they
want to do they show up they're happy to
be there they're eager to learn they're
excited to go away and work on the
things they've learned and become better
players I get to watch people transform
from bangers to players every day it's a
wonderful thing it very gratifying for
me you can find out about the stinger
and the billiard Academy's offerings at
pol clinics comm where you'll also find
thirty five of Tom's instructional
articles so as tom says play well have
fun and beat people with a stick